VP Liability Underwriting Officer
Zurich North America is currently looking for an experienced VP Liability Underwriting Officer. This position reports to the VP Casualty Lines, Underwriting Officer and our preference is for the individual to be located in any of our offices in the United States on a hybrid basis. The VP Liability Underwriting Officer is a key role responsible for guiding Zurich North America's liability underwriting strategy and execution. This role leads a team of underwriters and is responsible for setting, maintaining, and evolving underwriting standards, guidelines, appetite, and authority levels. The role ensures disciplined underwriting practices and drives portfolio strategy and performance management. This leader will apply deep liability expertise to develop and implement strategies for our Commercial General Liability and Excess portfolio. Working closely with Global colleagues and Business Unit Heads of Underwriting, this leader will deliver actionable insights, technical underwriting strategies, and pricing approaches that support financial objectives and strengthen portfolio quality. We are seeking a results-oriented professional with strong influencing skills and the ability to translate data and market trends into clear, executable plans. This leader will be proactive and solutions-oriented, driving modernization of underwriting capabilities through transformation initiatives. They will balance strategic vision with practical execution to deliver measurable impact across the organization.

Key Accountabilities
Shape portfolio performance by defining strategies, identify trends, support pricing adequacy, and drive profitability frameworks
Lead the delivery of underwriting direction to enable successful Commercial GL and Excess underwriting to achieve financial objectives in North America.
Drive profitable growth by providing business unit support for developing, implementing and monitoring business unit portfolio strategies.
Develop, negotiate and implement strategic operational plans aligned with BU goals; provide input to Commercial GL and Excess underwriting strategies for all North American portfolios with Commercial GL and Excess exposures.
Anticipate and assess long-term opportunities and risks associated with external market shifts, looking forward 5+ years.
Determine emerging issues relevant to current and future needs and ensure strategies, programs, processes incorporate these insights.
Ensure governance and alignment of policy, procedures and operating standards is completed for area of responsibility.
Optimize resource allocation and champion products, projects, investments in Commercial GL and Excess that meet business unit needs.
Evaluate underwriting activities to identify strategic risks and compliance issues.
Lead risk assessment for their area of responsibility and escalate potential issues to higher management.
Drives consistency and enhance underwriting standards across the Commercial GL and Excess Lines of Business to maintain or improve underwriting performance.
Promote a rigorous underwriting process and procedure monitoring system.
Provide effective leadership and management of Underwriting people resources: pursuing active talent management, driving capability development and creating a high-performance culture.
Oversees framework for underwriting decisions e.g. authority grants, referrals, technical underwriting reviews.
Guide design and implementation of rating and pricing tools and methodologies.
Provides strategic underwriting insight for tools development and modernization.
Develop and maintains strategic partnerships both internally and externally to advance business objectives.
Leads LoB underwriting strategy for product development in collaboration with business units and the Product Management.
Drive standardization and simplification of products, processes and tools across the LoB.
Identify Commercial GL and Excess training opportunities and assists with facilitation of Commercial GL and Excess training framework.
Oversees underwriting engagement with industry and regulatory bodies.
Basic Qualifications
Bachelors Degree and 10 or more years of experience in the Operations area AND Experience working globally or internationally with underwriting partners Supervisory or management experience

Preferred Qualifications
CPCU Technical knowledge and multi-level leadership skills reflective of a practitioner who has been operating at a senior underwriting level or manager role Track record of fostering business improvement and delivering change in a complex insurance environment

Your pay at Zurich is based on your role, location, skills, and experience. We follow local laws to ensure fair compensation. You may also be eligible for bonuses and merit increases. If your expectations are above the listed range, we still encourage you to applyyour unique background matters to us. The pay range shown is a national average and may vary by location. The proposed Salary range for this position is $197,800.00 - $324,000.00, with short-term incentive bonus eligibility set at 25%. We offer competitive pay and comprehensive benefits for employees and their families.

Why Zurich?
At Zurich, we value your ideas and experience. We offer growth, inclusion, and a supportive environmentso you can help shape the future of insurance. Zurich North America is a leader in risk management, with over 150 years of expertise and coverage across 25+ industries, including 90% of the Fortune 500. Join us for a brighter futurefor yourself and our customers. Zurich in North America does not discriminate based on race, ethnicity, color, religion, national origin, sex, gender expression, gender identity, genetic information, age, disability, protected veteran status, marital status, sexual orientation, pregnancy or other characteristics protected by applicable law. Equal Opportunity Employer disability/vets.

Philadelphia Staffing