Department Manager
We are living our Purpose To Care Deeply about People, Helping them to Eat Well and Be Happy. This Purpose guides everything we do and is why we are in business. We are using our service priorities - Safety, Friendliness, Presentation, and Efficiency to help us make decisions at work every day and are critical to the success of our business goals.

Title: Department Manager Job Code: 2460

Job: Night Crew Chief Non-Exempt

Department: Night Crew

Supervised by: Store Manager, Assistant Store Manager

To effectively direct and supervise all functions and activities of the Night Crew Department and its Associates to achieve the Department's goals (i.e. sales, profit, Customer Experience, and Associate Engagement) in accordance with our Purpose and Service Priorities under the direction of the General Store Manager.

The minimum required qualifications for this position include, but are not limited to, the following:

Ability to proficiently read, write, speak, analyze, interpret, and understand the English language.
Ability to perform basic math.
Ability to stand/walk for the duration of a scheduled shift.
Ability to perform basic computer functions.
Ability to stand, bend, twist, reach, push, pull and regularly lift 25 lbs., and occasionally lift 60 lbs.
Ability to work with fresh, dried and/or processed products, spices and powdered substances without negative allergic consequences.
Ability to work in varying temperatures.
Ability to tolerate dust and cleaning agents during routine housekeeping duties.
Ability to climb a ladder to retrieve items from overhead racking and storage areas.
Ability to interact with Customers in a friendly and helpful way.
Ability to work cooperatively with others.
Ability to work all assigned work schedules and comply with all time and attendance policies.
Ability to engage and lead Associates to achieve department goals.
Performance of the essential functions of this position requires the Associate to possess the minimum qualifications listed above and to perform these functions in accordance with all ShopRite Service Priorities (Safety, Friendliness, Presentation, and Efficiency). These essential functions include, but are not limited to, the following:

Safety (Food Safety & Compliance)

Perform all duties in accordance with all Company policies and programs, and all Local, State, and Federal laws and regulations, including all environmental, health, safety and security policies, programs, laws and regulations.
Perform all duties in accordance with the Company's HAZCOM program and adhere to manufacturer's label instructions for the safe and proper use of all chemical products.
Maintain a clean, neat, organized and safe work environment in accordance with Department QA standards.
Clearly communicate and consistently enforce department and Company safety policies and procedures.
Observe all safety regulations when operating equipment and utilize Personal Protective Equipment.
Supervise the proper use of all equipment by Associates, including Personal Protective Equipment.
Understand and adhere to all procedures in emergency situations.
Use and maintain equipment in good working order; immediately advise Store Management of any maintenance or equipment problems.
Ensure that Associates operating power equipment (balers, hi-lo's, power jacks, slicing machines, etc.) are 18 years of age or older.
Regularly lift, pull, push and rotate merchandise that weights 25 lbs., and that occasionally weights up to 60 lbs.
Unload trucks and transport merchandise to Night Crew Department that weights 25 lbs., and that occasionally weights 60 lbs.
Set up and maintain a proper cleaning maintenance schedule of entire department.
Friendliness (Customer Experience & Associate Engagement)

Greet all Customers and provide them with prompt, courteous service and assistance.
Promote the sale of any current charitable promotions to Customers (i.e. Partners in Caring, Check Out Hunger).
Assist with the onboarding of new department Associates, including interviewing, selection and training, in accordance with Company policies and procedures and all Local, State, and Federal labor laws and regulations.
Provide continual training, developmental action planning, and meaningful feedback on job performance to Associates.
Maintain an open line of communication and work cooperatively with all business partners.
Lead Associates to work cooperatively while encouraging enthusiasm, loyalty, and creativity.
Encourage and recognize Associates to provide a positive Customer Experience.
Presentation (Personal & Department Conditions)

Portray a professional appearance and be a positive role model for all Associates in the department in accordance with the Company Dress Code Policy.
Ensure Unit Price Labels (tags) for all items are maintained and are current.
Monitor Night Crew storage area for cleanliness, neatness and preparation for next shift (i.e. making bale, reclamation, plastic, pallets).
Ensure all merchandise is fully stocked and rotated in display cases, shelves and other applicable displays according to tag allocation and department standards.
Ensure all product is blocked and faced in accordance with Company policy or as assigned.
Ensure that featured sale merchandise is signed in accordance with Company and regulatory standards.
Efficiency (Department Operations & Regulatory Compliance)

Understand and utilize all required applications and current technology as relates to Night Crew Operations.
Verify accuracy of invoices to actual product received.
Ensure all reports and records are accurate, complete and retained in accordance with Company policy.
Ensure the quality of all product received and secure properly in appropriate storage areas.
Ensure the accuracy of item pricing, item locator and shelf allocation.
Ensure reclamation or return-to-stock product procedures are followed in accordance with Company policy.
Ensure in-store pricing procedures and in-store transfers are followed in accordance with Company policy.
Understand and adhere to Local, State and Federal regulations as relates to Night Crew Operations.
Understand the impact of department financials and how to adjust department operations to ensure goals are achieved.
Understand and adhere to Company shrink guidelines as relates to Night Crew Operations.
Clearly communicate and consistently enforce department and Company policies and procedures.
Maintain proper staffing to meet projected sales and Customer Experience needs.
Complete all applicable department training programs.
Maintain punctual and regular attendance and work overtime as assigned.
Perform all duties in accordance with all Local, State, and Federal Department of Labor Minor Regulations for any Associates under 18 years of age.
Perform other duties as assigned.
Important Disclaimer Notice: The above statements are only intended to represent the essential job functions and general nature of the work being performed and are not exhaustive of the tasks that an Associate may be required to perform. The employer reserves the right to revise this job description at any time and to require Associates to perform other tasks as circumstances or conditions of its business, competitive considerations, or the work environment change. This job description is not a guarantee of employment.